[CUBRIDMAN-89] Add more examples for Server-Side JDBC (#340)
CUBRID/cubrid-manual: en/sql/jsp.rst

    javac SpCubrid.java

> When using the server-side JDBC driver, you must compile as follows by specifying the path of JDBC using the **classpath(cp)** option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using the server-side JDBC driver, you must include the JDBC jar file in the classpath when you compile the source code.
```

Using Server-side Internal JDBC Driver
======================================

To access the database from a Java stored function/procedure, you must use the server-side JDBC driver.
The following are possible with the server-side JDBC driver.

*    **Executing SQL Statements**
*    **Processing Query Result**

The following classes are supported by the server-side JDBC driver. For details on JDBC API support, refer to :ref:`jsp-appendix`.

*    **java.sql.Connection**
*    **java.sql.Statement**
*    **java.sql.PreparedStatement**
*    **java.sql.CallableStatement**
*    **java.sql.ResultSet**
*    **java.sql.ResultSetMetaData**

.. warning::
    
    **java.sql.DatabaseMetaData** is not supported yet.

> Database opertions using the server-side JDBC have the following characteristics.

Reviewer: typo: opertions

Author: fixed thank you

> * Database operations executed in the Java stored function/procedure belong to the transaction that called the Java stored function/procedure.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Database operations executed in the Java stored function/procedure belongs to the transaction that is called the Java stored function/procedure.
```

Author: fixed

> * Database operations executed in the Java stored function/procedure belong to the transaction that called the Java stored function/procedure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Database operations executed in the Java stored functions/procedures belong to the transaction that called the functions/procedures.
```

> * Transaction related APIs are ignored.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Transaction-related APIs are ignored.
```

* There is no need to make the connection to the server-side JDBC driver again. 

.. _jsp-server-side-jdbc-connection:

Creating Connection
---------------------

To access the database from a Java stored function/procedure, you must use the server-side JDBC driver.

> To acquire a connection to the database using the server-side JDBC driver, you can either use "**jdbc:default:connection:**" as the URL for JDBC connection, or call the **getDefaultConnection** () method of the **cubrid.jdbc.driver.CUBRIDDriver** class.

Reviewer 3: The following is different from ko. (Connection vs driver)
```
ko: 데이터베이스에 접근하기 위해서 서버 측 JDBC Connection을 생성해야한다.
en: To access the database from a Java stored function/procedure, you must use the server-side JDBC driver.
```

Author: Thank you so much

>     cubrid.jdbc.driver.CUBRIDDriver.getDefaultConnection();

Reviewer 3: Shouldn't it be changed like below?
```
Connection conn = cubrid.jdbc.driver.CUBRIDDriver.getDefaultConnection();
```

>     cubrid.jdbc.driver.CUBRIDDriver.getDefaultConnection();

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    Connection conn = cubrid.jdbc.driver.CUBRIDDriver.getDefaultConnection();
```

.. note::

>     The server-side JDBC is already registered, you don't need to call "Class.forName("cubrid.jdbc.driver.CUBRIDDriver")"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    The server-side JDBC is already registered, you do not need to call "Class.forName("cubrid.jdbc.driver.CUBRIDDriver")"
```

probably in formal documents, is better not to use abbreviations.

>     The server-side JDBC is already registered, you don't need to call "Class.forName("cubrid.jdbc.driver.CUBRIDDriver")"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The server-side JDBC is already registered, and you don't need to call "Class.forName("cubrid.jdbc.driver.CUBRIDDriver")"
```

>     The server-side JDBC is already registered, you don't need to call "Class.forName("cubrid.jdbc.driver.CUBRIDDriver")"

Reviewer 3: The following is different from ko.
Double quotes are surrounded by duplicates.

```
ko: Class.forName("cubrid.jdbc.driver.CUBRIDDriver")
en: "Class.forName("cubrid.jdbc.driver.CUBRIDDriver")"
```

Author: This is to let them know that it is a code...

.. _jsp-execute-statement:

Executing SQL Statements
----------------------------

> When implementing Java stored/procedures, queries can be executed using the following JDBC interface in the same way as developing Java applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When implementing Java stored functions/procedures, queries can be executed using the following JDBC interface in the same way as developing Java applications.
```

*    **java.sql.Statement**
*    **java.sql.PreparedStatement**
*    **java.sql.CallableStatement**

> The following is a query that can be executed using the above class.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following are the queries that can be executed using the above class.
```

*    **DML (Data Manipulation Language)**: :doc:`/sql/query/index`

> *    **DDL (Data Definition Language)**: :doc:`/sql/query/index`

Reviewer 3: /sql/query/index → /sql/schema/index

> *    **DDL (Data Definition Language)**: :doc:`/sql/query/index`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
*    **DDL (Data Definition Language)**: :doc:`/sql/schema/index`
```

.. note::

>     The JDBC object created when executing a query must contain only one SQL statement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The JDBC Statement objects must contain only one SQL statement.
```

        Therefore, an error occurs in the following cases:

        stmt = new Statement ("select * from t1;select * from t2;");

> The following statements are not supported.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.. note::

    The JDBC object created when executing a query must contain only one SQL statement.
    Therefore, an error occurs in the following cases:

    ::

        stmt = new Statement ("select * from t1;select * from t2;");

The following statements are not supported.
```

> * **TCL (Transaction Control Language)**: :ref:`database-transaction`

Reviewer 3: The following changes are required.

```
diff --git a/en/sql/transaction.rst b/en/sql/transaction.rst
index 5534bd0..3b0b0d6 100644
--- a/en/sql/transaction.rst
+++ b/en/sql/transaction.rst
@@ -2,6 +2,8 @@
 :meta-keywords: cubrid transaction, database transaction, cubrid locking, database locking, cubrid concurrency, multiversion concurrency control, mvcc, isolation level, database recovery
 :meta-description: This chapter covers issues relating to concurrency (MVCC) and restore, as well as how to commit or rollback transactions in CUBRID database.

+.. _database-transaction:
+
 Database Transaction
 ====================
```

Author: Thank you so much! I slipped.

.. note::

>      * *commit()*, *rollback()*\ JDBC API methods corresponding to **COMMIT** and **ROLLBACK** statements respectively are ignored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     * *commit()*, *rollback()*\  JDBC API methods corresponding to **COMMIT** and **ROLLBACK** statements respectively are ignored.
```

>      * *commit()*, *rollback()*\ JDBC API methods corresponding to **COMMIT** and **ROLLBACK** statements respectively are ignored.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
     * *commit()*, *rollback()* JDBC API methods corresponding to **COMMIT** and **ROLLBACK** statements respectively are ignored.
```

>      * JDBC API methods corresponding to the **SAVEPOINT** statement is not supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     * JDBC API methods corresponding to **SAVEPOINT** statement are not supported.
```

The example of executing statements
-------------------------------------

**Execute a query that returns a result set and process the query result set**

The following example shows how to execute a **SELECT** statement that returns a result set.
**SELECT** statement can be executed by creating a **java.sql.Statement** or **java.sql.PreparedStatement** object.

> The query result can be processed using the executed query result set (**java.sql.ResultSet**).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The query result can be processed using the result set (**java.sql.ResultSet**).
```

.. note::

     * java.sql.ResultSet is forward-only and read-only.

>      * In the case of the client-side JDBC driver, when a query result set is created, :ref:`cursor holdability <cursor-holding>`\ is performed by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     * In the case of the client-side JDBC driver, when a query result set is created, :ref:`cursor holdability <cursor-holding>`\  is performed by default.
```

>      * In the case of the client-side JDBC driver, when a query result set is created, :ref:`cursor holdability <cursor-holding>`\ is performed by default.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
     * In the case of the client-side JDBC driver, when a query result set is created, :ref:`cursor holdability <cursor-holding>` is performed by default.
```

>           In the server-side JDBC driver, resources are managed by the server, so the query result set is internally organized at the end of the stored function/procedure without maintaining a cursor.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
       In the server-side JDBC driver, resources are managed by the server, so the query result set is internally closed at the end of the stored function/procedure without maintaining a cursor.
```

>           In the server-side JDBC driver, resources are managed by the server, so the query result set is internally organized at the end of the stored function/procedure without maintaining a cursor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          In the server-side JDBC driver, resources are managed by the server, so the query result set is internally organized at the end of the stored functions/procedures without maintaining a cursor.
```

Also, result set metadata (**java.sql.ResultSetMetaData**) can be created from the query result set by using the **getMetaData()** function.

.. code-block:: sql

    CREATE OR REPLACE FUNCTION sp_get_athlete_by_ncode (nc STRING) RETURN STRING as language java name 'TestQuery.printAthelete(java.lang.String) return java.lang.String'; 

.. code-block:: java
    

>     import java.sql.*;

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    import java.sql.*;

```

>     import java.sql.*;
>     public class TestQuery {
>         public static String printAthelete(String nation_code_filter) throws SQLException {
>             String sql = "SELECT * FROM public.athlete WHERE nation_code = ?";
>             StringBuilder builder = new StringBuilder();
>             Connection conn = null;
>             PreparedStatement pstmt = null;
>             try {
>                 conn = DriverManager.getConnection("jdbc:default:connection:");
>                 pstmt = conn.prepareStatement(sql);
>                 pstmt.setString(1, nation_code_filter);
>                 ResultSet rs = pstmt.executeQuery();
>                 ResultSetMetaData rsmd = rs.getMetaData();
>                 builder.append("<Column Details>:\n");
>                 int colCount = rsmd.getColumnCount();
>                 for (int i = 1; i <= colCount; i++) {
>                     String colName = rsmd.getColumnName(i);
>                     String colType = rsmd.getColumnTypeName(i);
>                     builder.append(colName + "," + colType);
>                     if (i != colCount) builder.append("|");
>                 }
>                 
>                 builder.append("\n<Rows>:\n");
>                 while (rs.next()) {
>                     for (int i = 1; i <= rsmd.getColumnCount(); i++) {
>                         Object object = rs.getObject(i);
>                         if (object != null) {
>                             readColumn(i, rsmd, rs, builder);
>                         }
>                         
>                         if (i != rsmd.getColumnCount()) builder.append ("|");
>                     }
>                     builder.append("\n");
>                 }
>                 rs.close();
>             } catch (Exception e) {
>                 builder.append(e.getMessage());
>             } finally {
>                 if (pstmt != null) pstmt.close();
>                 if (conn != null) conn.close();
>             }
>             return builder.toString();
>         }

Reviewer 3: I want it to be the same as ko.
```suggestion
    import java.sql.*;

    public class TestQuery {
        public static String printAthelete(String nation_code_filter) throws SQLException {
            String sql = "SELECT * FROM public.athlete WHERE nation_code = ?";

            StringBuilder builder = new StringBuilder();
            Connection conn = null;
            PreparedStatement pstmt = null;

            try {
                conn = DriverManager.getConnection("jdbc:default:connection:");
                pstmt = conn.prepareStatement(sql);

                pstmt.setString(1, nation_code_filter);

                ResultSet rs = pstmt.executeQuery();
                ResultSetMetaData rsmd = rs.getMetaData();

                builder.append("<Column Details>:\n");
                int colCount = rsmd.getColumnCount();
                for (int i = 1; i <= colCount; i++) {
                    String colName = rsmd.getColumnName(i);
                    String colType = rsmd.getColumnTypeName(i);
                    builder.append(colName + "," + colType);

                    if (i != colCount) builder.append("|");
                }
                
                builder.append("\n<Rows>:\n");
                while (rs.next()) {
                    for (int i = 1; i <= rsmd.getColumnCount(); i++) {
                        Object object = rs.getObject(i);
                        if (object != null) {
                            readColumn(i, rsmd, rs, builder);
                        }
                        
                        if (i != rsmd.getColumnCount()) builder.append ("|");
                    }
                    builder.append("\n");
                }

                rs.close();
            } catch (Exception e) {
                builder.append(e.getMessage());
            } finally {
                if (pstmt != null) pstmt.close();
                if (conn != null) conn.close();
            }

            return builder.toString();
        }

```

        }
    }

.. note::

    conn.commit() is ignored at the Athlete class example above.

> IN/OUT of Primitive Types in Java Stored Function/Procedure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OUT Parameters of Primitive Types
```

--------------------------------------------------------------

> ***? When changing an argument value in Java in a Java stored function/procedure of CUBRID, the changed value must be passed when an argument is passed as an OUT argument as a one-dimensional array.

Reviewer 4: "***?" is it a valid mark or tag ?

Author: I think it is typo. I'm gonna fix it

> ***? When changing an argument value in Java in a Java stored function/procedure of CUBRID, the changed value must be passed when an argument is passed as an OUT argument as a one-dimensional array.

Reviewer 5: Is `***?` intended?

Author: fixed

> ***? When changing an argument value in Java in a Java stored function/procedure of CUBRID, the changed value must be passed when an argument is passed as an OUT argument as a one-dimensional array.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Parameters of Java methods corresponding to an OUT (or IN OUT) parameter of an SQL primitive type must be declared as an one-dimensional array of that primitive type.
```

.. code-block:: sql

>     CREATE PROCEDURE sp_increment_me(x INT OUT INT) AS LANGUAGE JAVA NAME 'OutTest.incrementInt(int[])';

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    CREATE PROCEDURE sp_increment_me(x IN OUT INT) AS LANGUAGE JAVA NAME 'OutTest.incrementInt(int[])';
```

>     CREATE PROCEDURE sp_increment_me(x INT OUT INT) AS LANGUAGE JAVA NAME 'OutTest.incrementInt(int[])';

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    CREATE PROCEDURE sp_increment_me(x OUT INT) AS LANGUAGE JAVA NAME 'OutTest.incrementInt(int[])';
```

> .. code-block:: java

Reviewer 3: An empty line is required.

Author: fixed

    public class OutTest {
        public static void incrementInt(int[] arg) {
            arg[0] = arg[0] + 1;
        }
    }

> IN/OUT of Set Type in Java Stored Function/Procedure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OUT Parameters of Set Types
```

----------------------------------------------------

> If the set type of the Java stored function/procedure in CUBRID is IN OUT, the value of the argument changed in Java must be applied to IN OUT. When the set type is passed to the OUT argument, it must be passed as a two-dimensional array.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Parameters of Java methods corresponding to an OUT (or IN OUT) parameter of an SQL set type must be declared as an two-dimensional array of an appropriate type.
```

.. code-block:: sql

    CREATE PROCEDURE setoid(x in out set, z object) AS LANGUAGE JAVA 

>     NAME 'SetOIDTest.SetOID(cubrid.sql.CUBRIDOID[][], cubrid.sql.CUBRIDOID';

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    NAME 'SetOIDTest.SetOID(cubrid.sql.CUBRIDOID[][], cubrid.sql.CUBRIDOID)';
```

.. code-block:: java

    import cubrid.sql.CUBRIDOID;

    public class SetOIDTest {
        public static void SetOID(CUBRIDOID[][] set, CUBRIDOID aoid) {
            String ret="";
            Vector v = new Vector();

            CUBRIDOID[] set1 = set[0];

            try {
                if(set1 != null) {
                    int len = set1.length;
                    int i = 0;
                    
                    for (i = 0; i < len; i++)
                        v.add(set1[i]);
                }
                
                v.add(aoid);
                set[0] = (CUBRIDOID[]) v.toArray(new CUBRIDOID[]{});
                
            } catch(Exception e) {
                e.printStackTrace();
                System.err.println("SQLException:"+e.getMessage());
            }
        }
    }

> Using OID in Java Stored Function/Procedure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OUT Parameters of CUBRID OID type
```

-------------------------------------------

> In case of using the OID type value for IN/OUT in CUBRID, use the value passed from the server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case of using an OUT (or IN OUT) parameter of CUBRID OID type, declare the corresponding parameter of the Java method as an array of CUBRIDOID class (cubrid.sql.CUBRIDOID).
```

        }
    }

.. _jsp-get-client-info:

> Getting information about connection client

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Getting information about connection clients
```

---------------------------------------------

.. code-block:: sql

    CREATE OR REPLACE FUNCTION sp_client_info () RETURN STRING as language java name 'SpTestClientInfo.getClientInfo() return java.lang.String'; 

> .. code-block:: java

Reviewer 3: An empty line is required.

Author: fixed

    import java.util.Properties;
    import java.sql.*;
     
    public class SpTestClientInfo {
        public static String getClientInfo() {
            Connection conn = null;
            String result = "";
     
            try {
                conn = DriverManager.getConnection("jdbc:default:connection:");
     

>                 Properties props = conn.getClientInfo();
>                 // How to get from the Properties
>                 // String user = props.getProperty ("user");
>                 result = props.toString ();

Reviewer 3: I want it to be the same as ko.
```suggestion
                Properties props = conn.getClientInfo();

                // How to get from the Properties
                // String user = props.getProperty ("user");

                result = props.toString ();
```

            } catch (Exception e) {
                result = e.getMessage ();
            }
            return result;
        }
    }
.. code-block:: sql

    SELECT sp_client_info ();

    sp_client_info()
    ======================
    '{pid=200270, user=DBA, login=cubrid, program=csql, type=2, host=cubrid, ip=192.168.2.201}'

> Connecting to Other Database

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Connecting to Another Database
```

============================

You can connect to another outside database instead of the currently connected one even when the server-side JDBC driver is being used. Acquiring a connection to an outside database is not different from a generic JDBC connection. For details, see JDBC API.

> .. warning::

Reviewer 3: The block below needs indentation.

Author: thank you fixed

If you connect to other databases, the connection to the CUBRID database does not terminate automatically even when the execution of the Java method ends. 

>   Therefore, the connection must be explicitly closed so that the result of transaction operations such as **COMMIT** or **ROLLBACK** will be reflected in the database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Therefore, the connection must be explicitly closed so that transaction operations such as **COMMIT** or **ROLLBACK** take effect in the database.
```

            Connection conn = null;
            Statement stmt = null;
            ResultSet rs = null;

            try {
                conn = DriverManager.getConnection("jdbc:CUBRID:localhost:33000:demodb:::","","");

                String sql = "select line_id, line from line";
                stmt = conn.createStatement();
                rs = stmt.executeQuery(sql);
                
                while(rs.next()) {
                    int host_year = rs.getString("host_year");
                    String host_nation = rs.getString("host_nation");
                    
                    System.out.println("Host Year ==> " + host_year);
                    System.out.println(" Host Nation==> " + host_nation);
                    System.out.println("\n=========\n");
                }
                
                rs.close();
            } catch (SQLException e1) {
                System.err.println(e1.getMessage());
            } catch (Exception e2) {
                System.err.println(e2.getMessage());
            } finally {
                if (stmt != null) stmt.close();
                if (conn != null) conn.close();
            }
        }
    }

> When the Java stored function/procedure is executed, it should run only on JVM located in the database server, you can check where it is running by calling System.getProperty ("cubrid.server.version") from the Java program source. The result value is the database version if it is called from the database; otherwise, it is **NULL**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When Java stored functions/procedures are executed, they should run only on a JVM located in the database server. You can check where they are running by calling System.getProperty ("cubrid.server.version") from the Java programs. The result is the database version if it is called from the database; otherwise, it is **NULL**.
```

.. _jsp-load-java:

> loadjava Utility

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Loadjava Utility
```

================

> To load a compiled Java or JAR (Java Archive) file into CUBRID, use the **loadjava** utility. If you load a Java \*.class or \*.jar file using the **loadjava** utility, the file is moved to the specified database path. ::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can load a Java \*.class or \*.jar file using **loadjava** utility. The file is moved to a database internal path.
```

    loadjava [option] database-name java-class-file

*   *database-name*: The name of the database where the Java file to be loaded.
*   *java-class-file*: The name of the Java class or jar file to be loaded.
*   [*option*]

>     *   **-y**: Automatically overwrites a class file with the same name, if any. The default value is **no**. If you load the file without specifying the **-y** option, you will be prompted to ask if you want to overwrite the class file with the same name (if any).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    *   **-y**: automatically overwrites a file with the same name, if any. If you do not use this option, you will get a prompt asking if you want to overwrite the file with the same name, if any.
```

.. _jsp-caution:

Caution
=======

* java.sql.DatabaseMetaData is not supported.
* JDBC API related to BLOB/CLOB type is not supported.
* Functions not related to query execution and used only in client-side JDBC are not supported. For details, refer to :ref:`jsp-appendix`\.
* Multiple SQL statements are not supported when executing a query with one JDBC object.
* ResultSet created by query execution is non-updatable, non-scrollable, and non-sensitive.

> * Java ignores the return value and type digits of IN/OUT parameters, matches only the type, and delivers it to the database as it is.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Java ignores precision, scale, and length parts of SQL types of IN/OUT parameters, matches only the type name parts, and delivers values as they are.
```

* A stored procedure can call another stored procedure or call itself recursively. The maximum nesting depth is 16.

> Returning Value of Java Stored Function/Procedure and Precision Type on IN/OUT

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Length of Return Values
```

Author: I've revised it as follows
`Limitations on the precision of IN/OUT parameters and a return value`

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

> To limit the return value of Java stored function/procedure and precision type on IN/OUT, CUBRID processes as follows:

Reviewer 3: It's trivial.
The structure is different from ko, is this the intention?

> To limit the return value of Java stored function/procedure and precision type on IN/OUT, CUBRID processes as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Java stored functions/procedures do not adjust the length of return values. That is, it processes as follows:
```

> *   Checks the sql_type of the Java stored function/procedure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   Checks the SQL type of the Java stored function/procedure.
```

> *   Passes the value returned by Java to the database with only the type converted if necessary, ignoring the number of digits defined during creating the Java stored function/procedure. In principle, the user manipulates directly the data which is passed to the database.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
*   Passes the value returned by Java to the database with only the type converted if necessary, ignoring the number of digits defined during creating the Java stored function/procedure. In principle, the user should directly manipulates the data which is passed to the database.
```

> *   Passes the value returned by Java to the database with only the type converted if necessary, ignoring the number of digits defined during creating the Java stored function/procedure. In principle, the user manipulates directly the data which is passed to the database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   Passes the value from Java to the database only with type conversion if necessary, ignoring the length part of the SQL type. In principle, users have to manipulate the data from Java appropriately.
```
